welcome my name is chris orwig and we're
here at Photoshop world in Las Vegas and
what I want to do in this movie is share
with you a couple of tips that will help
you get more out of lightroom two point
oh alright well here we have this
photograph of the musician Jack Johnson
now I like this image dealer a couple of
problems one is I need to crop this too
is I need to work a little bit on the
overall light or the color or the tone
of this image all right well first let's
start off by cropping the image in order
to access the crop tool you can press
the are key you can press the are key
from any module inside of lightroom so
when i press the RTI notice i have this
nice crop overlay I can actually cycle
through different crop overlays which
may help me evaluate the image if you
press the 0 key you can see here that
I'm cycling through some different crop
overlays one of the things that I notice
as I go through those different overlays
is that I think there's a little bit too
much head room above this above at the
top of this image so I'm go ahead and
hold down one of the corner points here
and I'm simply going to click and drag
down now I can see the area that's going
to be cropped off and it's the area
that's gray there I'll reposition the
image that looks pretty good then double
click to apply that crop okay I think
that's a little bit more interesting
it's a little bit more about the person
a little bit less about the environment
I like that ok well now on to the color
and tone I'm going to go into the basic
panel I'll open up the basic panel here
inside of the develop module and I'm
going to increase exposure just to touch
add a little bit of fill light and I
like to think of fill light as
reflective light it's almost like you
have a reflector you can bounce some
light into those shadow areas like the
shadow areas in the eyes so I'm going to
go ahead and increase the fill or
reflective light in there okay that
looks quite a bit better add a little
bit of contrast here and then save some
of the highlights there with recovery
let's look at our before and after we'll
do that by pressing the backslash key so
here's before and here's after okay the
image is going to a good direction
except there's just there's a little bit
too much of a shadow around the eyes so
in order to fix that I'm going
navigate to the adjustment brush now you
can either select the adjustment brush
from the tool strip you can notice it
right here underneath the histogram or
you can press a shortcut key this is one
of those shortcuts it's worth writing
down it's the keiki so I press like a
key I'm here inside of the adjustment
brush and I'm going to go to the effect
of exposure exposure I'm going to
increase exposure just a touch here size
of my brush will hover over the image
that's much too big so I'm going to
decrease it a couple different ways to
decrease it easiest way is to use the
bracket key i'll press the left bracket
key now I have a much smaller brush
there all right auto mask I'm going to
turn off feather I want a pretty high
feather amount not quite that high
though go down the 50s my flowing to
take way down you can think of the flow
as the intensity of the effect with a
low flow you can paint some and it just
a little bit of effect is painted in
then you can slowly build it up more and
more and more so I want a pretty nice
low flow there and that looks pretty
good for my brush and now I'm just going
to go ahead and begin to paint over
these shadow areas of the eyes now when
you're doing work with lights or you're
doing work with shadows and bringing
light in the shadows you want to make
sure your adjustments are pretty subtle
those are a little bit too strong so I'm
going to decrease my flow amount here so
it's there even less so again I can just
build this up as I'm painting this in go
around the other edge of the eyes
they're a little bit of light the corner
of the eye now to see the before and
after all that I need to do is click on
this toggle switch here and it will show
me the before and then now the after see
the overall before and after i'll press
the back / e there's my before and
there's the after now you'll notice that
there's a little pin or a little node
and that's showing me that I've made an
adjustment I can hide that if that's
distracting by pressing the H key now
that adjustments still there it's just
hiding that little note or that little
marker that little pin press the H key
to bring it back alright well that wraps
up this movie and in this movie I hope
you picked up a few helpful tips that
will help you get more out of using the
crop tool as well as the adjustment
brush